mpt-witness-generator/README.md, before:

# Merkle Patricia Trie witness generator

This project aims to prepare witness generator for Merkle Patricia Trie circuit which is part of
[zkevm-circuits](https://github.com/appliedzkp/zkevm-circuits).

It is based on [geth](https://github.com/ethereum/go-ethereum).
It takes `eth_getProof` output and it transforms it into the MPT circuit witness.  

MPT circuit checks that the modification of the trie state happened correctly.

Let us assume there are two proofs (as returned by `eth getProof`):

- A proof that there exists value `val1` at key `key1` for address `addr` in the state trie with root `root1`.
- A proof that there exists value `val2` at key `key1` for address `addr` in the state trie with root `root2`.

The circuit checks the transition from `val1` to `val2` at `key1` that led to the change
of trie root from `root1` to `root2`.

For this reason, there are two parallel proofs for each trie modification.
There is `S` (as `State`) proof which presents the state of the trie
before the modification. And there is `C` (as `Change`) proof which presents the state
of the trie after modification. 

An example of `eth_getProof` output is given below:

```
[248 81 128 128 128 160 32 34 39 131 73 65 47 37 211 142 206 231 172 16 11 203 33 107 30 7 213 226 2 174 55 216 4 117 220 10 186 68 128 128 128 128 128 128 128 160 55 235 85 86 230 197 53 159 28 141 120 87 82 57 4 132 185 12 24 158 142 210 106 188 12 87 179 231 52 16 126 229 128 128 128 128 128]
[226 160 59 138 106 70 105 186 37 13 38 205 122 69 158 202 157 33 95 131 7 227 58 235 229 3 121 188 90 54 23 236 52 68 1]
```

The first element of the proof is a branch containing two children. The second element of the proof is
a storage leaf contained in the branch (from the first proof element).

To simplify the MPT circuit, the `eth_getProof` elements are not directly used as rows.
Instead, the rows are prepared as:

```
[1 0 1 0 248 81 0 248 81 0 11 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0]
[0 0 128 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 128 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1]
[0 0 128 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 128 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1]
[0 0 128 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 128 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1]
[0 160 32 34 39 131 73 65 47 37 211 142 206 231 172 16 11 203 33 107 30 7 213 226 2 174 55 216 4 117 220 10 186 68 0 160 32 34 39 131 73 65 47 37 211 142 206 231 172 16 11 203 33 107 30 7 213 226 2 174 55 216 4 117 220 10 186 68 1]
[0 0 128 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 128 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1]
[0 0 128 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 128 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1]
[0 0 128 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 128 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1]
[0 0 128 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 128 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1]
[0 0 128 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 128 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1]
[0 0 128 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 128 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1]
[0 0 128 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 128 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1]
[0 160 55 235 85 86 230 197 53 159 28 141 120 87 82 57 4 132 185 12 24 158 142 210 106 188 12 87 179 231 52 16 126 229 0 160 88 197 127 237 244 146 28 57 104 36 96 69 159 84 254 170 28 196 41 183 253 107 213 32 170 141 111 191 30 100 117 55 1]
[0 0 128 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 128 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1]
[0 0 128 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 128 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1]
[0 0 128 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 128 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1]
[0 0 128 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 128 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1]
[0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 16]
[0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 17]
[226 160 59 138 106 70 105 186 37 13 38 205 122 69 158 202 157 33 95 131 7 227 58 235 229 3 121 188 90 54 23 236 52 68 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2]
[1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 13]
[226 160 59 138 106 70 105 186 37 13 38 205 122 69 158 202 157 33 95 131 7 227 58 235 229 3 121 188 90 54 23 236 52 68 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 3]
[17 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 14]
[0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 15]
[0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 19]
```

...

<!--
What is changed compared to geth:
 * Some statedb and trie methods are made public to enable accessing internal structures.
 -->

## Generate witnesses

To generate witnesses for MPT circuit, go into witness folder and execute

```
go test gen_witness_from_infura_blockchain_test.go prepare_witness.go leaf.go extension_node.go modified_extension_node.go nodes.go test_tools.go branch.go util.go
```

to generate the tests that use Infura blockchain.

To generate the tests that use a local blockchain you need a local `geth`. You would
need to run something like:
```
geth --dev --http --ipcpath ~/Library/Ethereum/geth.ipc

```
The local `geth` is used to generate some tests that have a small number of accounts so that
these accounts appear in the first or second level of the trie. You might need to remove the
database if you already have some accounts:

```
geth removedb
```

And to generate the tests:

```
go test gen_witness_from_local_blockchain_test.go prepare_witness.go leaf.go extension_node.go modified_extension_node.go nodes.go test_tools.go branch.go util.go
```

The witness files will appear in generated_witnesses folder.

## Calling from Rust

Build:

```
go build -buildmode=c-archive -o libmpt.a witness_gen_wrapper.go 
```

Copy libmpt.a and libmpt.h to rust_call/build:

```
mv libmpt.* rust_call/build
```

Note: to avoid the problem described [](https://github.com/golang/go/issues/42459),
the following has been set in rust_call/.cargo/config:

```
[build]
rustflags = ["-C", "link-args=-framework CoreFoundation -framework Security"]
```

Commit message:

Fixing problems in MPT found by light client (#1610)
### Description

Witness generator fixes:

- When branch is hashed, its children are stored as hashes. This causes
problems when computing the neighbour node which is needed for the case
when a node is deleted from a branch with two nodes (the branch
dissappears, the remaining node moves one level up).
- Placeholder storage leaf RLP - when the leaf value is set to zero, the
RLP of the placeholder leaf RLP needs to be updated to reflect the
shortened value.
- `CreateObject` called when there is no storage trie for an account.
- Setting code hash fixed.

Circuit fix:
When value is set to 0 (which deletes the key) and there are two nodes
in the branch, then the node is deleted and the other node moves up one
level (replaces the branch). The returned node is then this moved node
which doesn't have the value 0 and the lookup into MPT tables fails.
Now the circuit is fixed to ensure the new value in the table is 0.

Besides that, some other problems are fixed which were found by @adria0
when integrating the light client and MPT (these were temporary hacks in
MPT for testing purposes that were forgotten to be removed):

-  `SetState` calls removed in `prepare_witness.go` calls from
-  `oracle.PrefetchStorage` call uncommented in `prepare_witness.go`
- `oracle.PrefetchStorage` call uncommented in `state/state_object.go
updateTrie`
- Account nodes were not appended to all nodes in `prepare_witness.go`.

### Type of change

- [x] Bug fix (non-breaking change which fixes an issue)
- [ ] New feature (non-breaking change which adds functionality)
- [ ] Breaking change (fix or feature that would cause existing
functionality to not work as expected)
- [ ] This change requires a documentation update

### How Has This Been Tested?

No test until now covered this scenario, now
`TestNeighbourNodeInHashedBranch` has been added.

mpt-witness-generator/README.md, after:

# Merkle Patricia Trie witness generator

This project aims to prepare witness generator for Merkle Patricia Trie circuit which is part of
[zkevm-circuits](https://github.com/appliedzkp/zkevm-circuits).

It is based on [geth](https://github.com/ethereum/go-ethereum).
It takes `eth_getProof` output and it transforms it into the MPT circuit witness.  

MPT circuit checks that the modification of the trie state happened correctly.

Let us assume there are two proofs (as returned by `eth getProof`):

- A proof that there exists value `val1` at key `key1` for address `addr` in the state trie with root `root1`.
- A proof that there exists value `val2` at key `key1` for address `addr` in the state trie with root `root2`.

The circuit checks the transition from `val1` to `val2` at `key1` that led to the change
of trie root from `root1` to `root2`.

For this reason, there are two parallel proofs for each trie modification.
There is `S` (as `State`) proof which presents the state of the trie
before the modification. And there is `C` (as `Change`) proof which presents the state
of the trie after modification. 

An example of `eth_getProof` output is given below:

```
[248 81 128 128 128 160 32 34 39 131 73 65 47 37 211 142 206 231 172 16 11 203 33 107 30 7 213 226 2 174 55 216 4 117 220 10 186 68 128 128 128 128 128 128 128 160 55 235 85 86 230 197 53 159 28 141 120 87 82 57 4 132 185 12 24 158 142 210 106 188 12 87 179 231 52 16 126 229 128 128 128 128 128]
[226 160 59 138 106 70 105 186 37 13 38 205 122 69 158 202 157 33 95 131 7 227 58 235 229 3 121 188 90 54 23 236 52 68 1]
```

The first element of the proof is a branch containing two children. The second element of the proof is
a storage leaf contained in the branch (from the first proof element).

To simplify the MPT circuit, the `eth_getProof` elements are not directly used as rows.
Instead, the rows are prepared as:

```
[1 0 1 0 248 81 0 248 81 0 11 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0]
[0 0 128 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 128 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1]
[0 0 128 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 128 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1]
[0 0 128 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 128 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1]
[0 160 32 34 39 131 73 65 47 37 211 142 206 231 172 16 11 203 33 107 30 7 213 226 2 174 55 216 4 117 220 10 186 68 0 160 32 34 39 131 73 65 47 37 211 142 206 231 172 16 11 203 33 107 30 7 213 226 2 174 55 216 4 117 220 10 186 68 1]
[0 0 128 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 128 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1]
[0 0 128 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 128 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1]
[0 0 128 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 128 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1]
[0 0 128 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 128 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1]
[0 0 128 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 128 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1]
[0 0 128 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 128 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1]
[0 0 128 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 128 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1]
[0 160 55 235 85 86 230 197 53 159 28 141 120 87 82 57 4 132 185 12 24 158 142 210 106 188 12 87 179 231 52 16 126 229 0 160 88 197 127 237 244 146 28 57 104 36 96 69 159 84 254 170 28 196 41 183 253 107 213 32 170 141 111 191 30 100 117 55 1]
[0 0 128 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 128 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1]
[0 0 128 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 128 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1]
[0 0 128 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 128 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1]
[0 0 128 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 128 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1]
[0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 16]
[0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 17]
[226 160 59 138 106 70 105 186 37 13 38 205 122 69 158 202 157 33 95 131 7 227 58 235 229 3 121 188 90 54 23 236 52 68 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2]
[1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 13]
[226 160 59 138 106 70 105 186 37 13 38 205 122 69 158 202 157 33 95 131 7 227 58 235 229 3 121 188 90 54 23 236 52 68 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 3]
[17 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 14]
[0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 15]
[0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 19]
```

...

<!--
What is changed compared to geth:
 * Some statedb and trie methods are made public to enable accessing internal structures.
 -->

## Generate witnesses

To generate witnesses for MPT circuit, execute

```
go test -v ./...
```

To generate the tests that use a local blockchain you need a local `geth`. You would
need to run something like:
```
geth --dev --http --ipcpath ~/Library/Ethereum/geth.ipc

```
The local `geth` is used to generate some tests that have a small number of accounts so that
these accounts appear in the first or second level of the trie. You might need to remove the
database if you already have some accounts:

```
geth removedb
```

The witness files will appear in generated_witnesses folder.

## Format the code

To format the code use:

```
gofmt -w ./*
```

## Calling from Rust

Build:

```
go build -buildmode=c-archive -o libmpt.a witness_gen_wrapper.go 
```

Copy libmpt.a and libmpt.h to rust_call/build:

```
mv libmpt.* rust_call/build
```

Note: to avoid the problem described [](https://github.com/golang/go/issues/42459),
the following has been set in rust_call/.cargo/config:

```
[build]
rustflags = ["-C", "link-args=-framework CoreFoundation -framework Security"]
```
